[Home](../index.md) > [Pdb](index.md) > PDB

# Using Microsoft Program Database (PDB) Files


A program database (PDB) file holds debugging and project state information about a program
and can be created in a number of ways. Historically, it has been created using a Microsoft
compiler and written in `C/C++`, `C#`, and `Visual Basic`.
A user generates a PDB file using the `/ZI or /Zi` flag (for C/C++ programs) or the
`/debug` flag (for Visual Basic/C# programs).


There are two mechanisms for processing a PDB file. First, the platform-independent
PDB Universal Reader/Analyzer, which can read a raw PDB file and apply it. Its capabilities
are expected to be expanded in future releases.  Second, the legacy capability that uses the
[DIA SDK](#debug-interface-access-sdk) to read information from the PDB file. This mechanism can only run
on a Windows platform, however it creates an XML representation of information gleaned using
the DIA SDK. These XML files can be saved and then used on Windows and non-Windows platforms
hosting Ghidra.


If loading a PDB, this should be done prior to other analysis, except in special cases,
such as when only loading data types.


Restricted loading of data types or public symbols is
supported by PDB Universal.


## To Load a PDB


PDB files can be loaded in two ways:


- **File → [Load PDB File](LoadPDB.md#load-pdb-file)**
- PDB Analyzer via **Analysis →
[Auto Analyze](../AutoAnalysisPlugin/AutoAnalysis.md#auto-analysis)** or
**Analysis → [One Shot](../AutoAnalysisPlugin/AutoAnalysis.md#one-shot-analysis)**.


## Information Loaded From PDB


1. Structure and union definitions
2. Typedefs
3. Enumerations
4. Class definitions
5. Function prototypes
6. Stack variable names and data types
7. Source line numbers
8. Instruction and data symbols


## The DIA SDK-Based Capability


*.PDB.XML files can be created in three different ways:



- From the Ghidra GUI in Windows, use the
[Ghidra Script Manager](../GhidraScriptMgrPlugin/GhidraScriptMgrPlugin.md)
to run the *CreatePdbXmlFilesScript.java* script. Follow the prompts to choose
the .PDB file (or directory containing .PDB file(s)) to be converted to .PDB.XML form.
When given a directory, the script recursively traverses all subfolders to find .PDB
files. A created .PDB.XML file is placed in the same location as the corresponding original
.PDB file.
- From a Windows command line, navigate to the following directory:
*`<ghidra install root>`/support*
and run the *createPdbXmlFiles.bat* script. The script takes one argument representing
either one .PDB file or a directory of .PDB files. When given a directory, the script
recursively traverses all subdirectories to find .PDB files. A created .PDB.XML file is
placed in the same location as the corresponding original .PDB file. Sample calls to the
script are shown below.
`    createPdbXmlFiles.bat C:\Symbols\samplePdb.pdb`
`    createPdbXmlFiles.bat C:\Symbols`
- Run the included *pdb.exe* executable (found in the *&lt;ghidra install
root&gt;/Ghidra/Features/PDB/os/win64* directory) and redirect (save) its output to an
XML file as shown below:
`    pdb.exe samplePdb.pdb > samplePdb.pdb.xml`


**NOTE:** Execution of *pdb.exe* has runtime dependencies which must be satisfied.
Please refer to the [README_PDB](../docs/README_PDB.md) document for details.


## Debug Interface Access SDK


The Microsoft Debug Interface Access Software Development Kit (DIA SDK) provides access to
debug information stored in program database (.PDB) files generated by Microsoft
post-compiler tools. Because the format of the .PDB file generated by the post-compiler tools
undergoes constant revision, exposing the format is impractical. Using the DIA API, you can
develop applications that search for and browse debug information stored in a .PDB file. Such
applications could, for example, report stack trace-back information and analyze performance
data.


> **Note:** If you are attempting to load a PDB on a
Windows machine and see an error message such as "Unable to locate the DIA SDK,"
you will need to add and register one or more files on your computer. Refer to the README_PDB document for detailed instructions.


**Related Topics:**


- [Load PDB File](LoadPDB.md)
- [Auto Analysis](../AutoAnalysisPlugin/AutoAnalysis.md)


---

[← Previous: DWARF External Debug Files](../DWARFExternalDebugFilesPlugin/DWARFExternalDebugFilesPlugin.md) | [Next: Load PDB File →](LoadPDB.md)
